README.md, before:

docker-cmd
==========

The docker-cmd project provides an alternative to docker-bash and
dockersh (based on nsenter), that does the right thing and allocates
a new pty from within the target container, so that programs such as
tmux and screen works within the session in question.

Usage: docker-cmd CONTAINER [USER] [CMD]

If no username is provided, it will be set to root. If no command
is provided, /bin/bash is used.

The docker-mkjail and docker-jailsh tools are provided in order to
simplify the process of setting up a jail for SSH users (for example).

For more information, look at the "Setting up a Docker jail" section.

Installation
============

To build and install the docker-cmd tools, run:
```
make clean all
sudo make install
```

Basic usage
===========

To use docker-cmd as a replacement for docker-bash or docker-enter,
simply use it like this:
```
# To enter the container with name CONTAINER as root and run /bin/bash
docker-cmd CONTAINER

# To run echo Hello World from within CONTAINER as user nobody
docker-cmd CONTAINER nobody run echo Hello World
```
Unlike most other solutions, a new pty will be allocated within the
target container, so commands such as tmux and screen work fine.

Setting up a Docker jail
========================

To create a jail for the user with username "luser", configure sudo to
allow entering the jail, and change the login shell for the user so that
the jail is automatically entered when logging in, run:
```
user=luser
sudo docker-mkjail $user
echo "$user ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: $(which docker-cmd) jail_$user $user" \
  | sudo tee /etc/sudoers.d/jail_$user
sudo chsh -s $(which docker-jailsh) $user
```
If you want to remove the jail, and restore the login shell to /bin/bash, run:
```
user=luser
sudo docker stop jail_$user
sudo docker rm jail_$user
sudo rm /etc/sudoers.d/jail_$user
sudo chsh -s /bin/bash $user
```

These command sequences could obviously be placed in scripts for convenience.

Notes
=====

You might want to customize the docker-mkjail script, if you want to
use another Docker base image or change the commands that are executed
to set it up. By default, it will set up a jail container based on
Ubuntu (Trusty), and disable all SUID/SGID programs within the jail in
order to decrease the chances of performing a privilege escalation
attack. Another thing you might want to do is add more shared folders,
by adding -v /path/on/host:/path/in/guest:rw to the docker run line.
They will by default only have access to their own home directory.

Note that a kernel vulnerability could obviously be abused in order to
break out of the Docker container regardless. The only way to be fully
secure is to not keep any sensitive data/services on the same host as
you are letting people log in to, even when using this.

The reaper-daemon (docker-reaper) is used as the init-process in jail
containers, and simply handles the reaping of zombie processes. When
using docker-cmd to put users in jails, there is usually no need for
daemon processes running from within the jail container, and thus a
real init-process is not necessary. It would be possible to simply run
/bin/bash here, of course, but besides being a waste of CPU cycles and
RAM it would also result in zombie processes not being reaped.

Future enhancements
===================

Since this was developed primarily with the intention of quickly getting
a working solution for myself and the specific use-case I had in mind,
it is not very configurable. If anyone wants to take the time and add
some getopt()-handling, and possibly a simple configuration file parser,
it would be appreciated. If not, I'll probably add this when I have some
more time to spare.

Things that should be configurable includes the namespaces to clone, what
uid/gid to use, what environment variables to allow, the working directory,
whether to allocate a tty or not (at the moment, it will check if stdin is
connected to a tty to determine whether to allocate one), and so on.

Another feature that I would like to have is for the username parameter
to be interpreted as a username within the container. At the moment, the
UID and GID is determined by looking up the username on the host.

Copyright (C) Joel Eriksson <je@clevcode.org> 2014

Commit message:

Now the jail base image is only built once.

README.md, after:

docker-cmd
==========

The docker-cmd project provides an alternative to docker-bash and
dockersh (based on nsenter), that does the right thing and allocates
a new pty from within the target container, so that programs such as
tmux and screen works within the session in question.

Usage: docker-cmd CONTAINER [USER] [CMD]

If no username is provided, it will be set to root. If no command
is provided, /bin/bash is used.

The docker-mkjail and docker-jailsh tools are provided in order to
simplify the process of setting up a jail for SSH users (for example).

For more information, look at the "Setting up a Docker jail" section.

Installation
============

To build and install the docker-cmd tools, run:
```
make clean all
sudo make install
```

Basic usage
===========

To use docker-cmd as a replacement for docker-bash or docker-enter,
simply use it like this:
```
# To enter the container with name CONTAINER as root and run /bin/bash
docker-cmd CONTAINER

# To run echo Hello World from within CONTAINER as user nobody
docker-cmd CONTAINER nobody run echo Hello World
```
Unlike most other solutions, a new pty will be allocated within the
target container, so commands such as tmux and screen work fine.

Setting up a Docker jail
========================

To create a jail for the user with username "luser", configure sudo to
allow entering the jail, and change the login shell for the user so that
the jail is automatically entered when logging in, run:
```
user=luser
sudo docker-mkjail $user
echo "$user ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: $(which docker-cmd) jail_$user $user" \
  | sudo tee /etc/sudoers.d/jail_$user
sudo chsh -s $(which docker-jailsh) $user
```
The first time you create a jail, it will create a new base image. This will
take some time. The next time you create a jail for a user, this image will
be reused.

If you want to remove a jail, and restore the login shell to /bin/bash, run:
```
user=luser
sudo docker stop jail_$user
sudo docker rm jail_$user
sudo rm /etc/sudoers.d/jail_$user
sudo chsh -s /bin/bash $user
```

These command sequences could obviously be placed in scripts for convenience.

Notes
=====

You might want to customize the docker-mkjail script, if you want to
use another Docker base image or change the commands that are executed
to set it up. By default, it will set up a jail container based on
Ubuntu (Trusty), and disable all SUID/SGID programs within the jail in
order to decrease the chances of performing a privilege escalation
attack. Another thing you might want to do is add more shared folders,
by adding -v /path/on/host:/path/in/guest:rw to the docker run line.
They will by default only have access to their own home directory.

Note that a kernel vulnerability could obviously be abused in order to
break out of the Docker container regardless. The only way to be fully
secure is to not keep any sensitive data/services on the same host as
you are letting people log in to, even when using this.

The reaper-daemon (docker-reaper) is used as the init-process in jail
containers, and simply handles the reaping of zombie processes. When
using docker-cmd to put users in jails, there is usually no need for
daemon processes running from within the jail container, and thus a
real init-process is not necessary. It would be possible to simply run
/bin/bash here, of course, but besides being a waste of CPU cycles and
RAM it would also result in zombie processes not being reaped.

Future enhancements
===================

Since this was developed primarily with the intention of quickly getting
a working solution for myself and the specific use-case I had in mind,
it is not very configurable. If anyone wants to take the time and add
some getopt()-handling, and possibly a simple configuration file parser,
it would be appreciated. If not, I'll probably add this when I have some
more time to spare.

Things that should be configurable includes the namespaces to clone, what
uid/gid to use, what environment variables to allow, the working directory,
whether to allocate a tty or not (at the moment, it will check if stdin is
connected to a tty to determine whether to allocate one), and so on.

Another feature that I would like to have is for the username parameter
to be interpreted as a username within the container. At the moment, the
UID and GID is determined by looking up the username on the host.

Copyright (C) Joel Eriksson <je@clevcode.org> 2014
